all right let me bring Sam up we'll do
more informal I want to ask Sam just a
few questions so Sam thanks for coming
back if who was here in 2022 when Sam
was here anyone remember so Sam was here
in 2022 he gave a great presentation
he's done stuff with saster since the
first saster annual in 2015 and but back
then he was on message he was SAR up
brex he could only say 95% of the truth
he still had to hold back a little bit
so we've got him now but he's just
finished up an incredible 18mon stin at
Founders fund across I guess here where
is the founders fund office somewhere
around here right block and a half a
block and awood Miami so I mostly want
what I want to open it up for questions
I just got a couple questions I want to
talk about
Sam but even just since we last got
together the world of venture the worlds
of sales the worlds of efficiency that
Adam I touched on it's changed so much
so I want to talk a little bit queue up
the conversation with Sam about how the
world's changed and then feel free to
ask your questions on scaling revenue or
anything else but maybe the first one I
want to do the second two of three on
sales but the first one on learning from
Founders fund help folks understand now
that you saw it from the other side
what's the real bar today to get funded
what's it like in general and if you're
not AI what's the bar for sure uh first
thank you for having me thanks and thank
you all for coming okay so when I joined
Founders fund it was uh late 2022 um Mid
late 2022 and and uh we were coming off
of an environment where startup funding
was uh as as uh fruitful as it had ever
been 2021 first half of 2022 and then
coming like my personal experience from
I joined Deco sign in 2008 but really
through the 2010s my experience as an
employee at a tech company and I was
spoiled in that the tech companies that
I worked for were able to raise money
from exceptional BCS and I joined the
company at a stage where they had
already realized some of this success
and continued realizing some of this
success and then I see on LinkedIn all
of these posts about we we raised our
series a from Founders fer suia and so I
entered this world of VC now almost two
years ago just thinking this is how the
world Works everyone's like that and
it's not what I found out relatively
quickly and some of this was influenced
by the macro the environment of 2021 and
early 2022 was certainly different than
the last 18 months but I think
regardless and this is true at Founders
fun and I suspect it's true at at most
firms the bar is really high higher than
I could have imagined both in terms of
the the the like founder Quality Bar
which is a little bit subjective and
then objective depending on the stage of
the business the growth metrics the
efficiency metrics and then the there
are these like nuances that prevent
deals from happening that uh I I wasn't
super aware of you mentioned AI Founders
fund didn't really do AI so even if you
were a the last 18 months it was like a
no-o regardless of the success of the
business we didn't love the categories
of like healthtech and edtech and so you
could be growing 5x year on year
starting at 2 million scaling to 10 and
there's just push back gosh our track
record in healthtech is not great and so
we're going to stay away from that and
so it's not it's not even one out of 10
companies that we speak with that we are
really excited about investing in it
it's one out of a hundred in the filter
to even get into that 100 is pretty high
so all learnings some macro driven but
probably uh happened when times were
good as well you know it's interesting
it's a good advice for folks not only is
the bar higher than folks realize
especially today to get funded it's a
rem reminder to folks that even bigger
funds Conor fund has billions even
bigger funds have flavors they have
flavors and for example when I caught up
with Byron deer most recently from
besser they're managing 10 or 20 million
they Byron's done a ton of the best ass
companies if you don't know he'll only
do a there's exceptions of course but if
you're not AI first there's no interest
and we can talk about why Founders one
has different flavors they don't they've
had good Healthcare they don't want to
do healthare right they've done paler
and and or however you pronounce it and
SpaceX SpaceX and so people you got to
meet with more people because of flavor
and you especially have to meet with
more people if you're not in a hot
category right and then I'll tell you
you might not have heard this story but
there was a story around when I started
investing a little after I started but
must probably was around 2015 or so VC's
have their LP meetings where they bring
their own investors together they have
different names and Peter teal who
founded Founders fund got up and
apparently said something this might be
slightly apocryphal but I think like
Adam's Dropbox story it's probably 80%
true and he got up and said our goal is
a hundred billion company per fund per
fund and Jaws Dropped In The Venture
Community but he had been the first
investor in Facebook which is worth over
a trillion he had co-founded paler which
is now worth it wasn't worth 100 billion
then but it's at worth at the edge of
100 billion and his point was Tech is so
big that we can productize every year
there should be a hundred billion dollar
company and that's our job and nothing
else matters and it sounded crazy in
2015 it sounded pressy and Peter
obviously is a controversial guy but I
don't think anyone says he's not smart
so he was probably eight or 10 years
ahead of the but uh it's still hard
today but realize there are folks who
are looking for a billion isn't enough
it turns out a bill you don't realize
until you're on the other side of the
table that selling your company for a
billion is a fraking dream I didn't get
there as a Founder I may never get there
but even that unless if a fund is even
midsize it's not enough right it's not
enough right what you're describing is
as as Peter described the power law
venture where there can be a series a an
exceptional company that is raising
money at 30 to 40 million dollar which I
think is probably the middle of the road
series a right now and a billion dollar
outcome for that company it it actually
doesn't move the needle for the fund and
that's a crazy irr and one would argue
an exceptional investment but unless you
can make the argument that it's going to
return the fund it's not that
interesting and so that makes the bar
that much higher I think and then let's
move and talk about some other I
think just for folks in SAS especially
in BB what got confusing in
2021 is things blew up so much that the
truth is in Venture the bar got lowered
and what I mean by that it's not like
lower growth was okay it wasn't but all
of a sudden it seemed like there could
be 20 payroll companies and 40 analytics
companies all at 10 millionair are going
15% am month growing there was so much
budget going to Adam's point he doesn't
even know all the Sass companies they
have at Vimeo there so much budget
flowed into B2B that it seemed like
there could be a thousand unicorns it
actually made it's crazy we we can all
laugh about the that 800 of the Thousand
unicorns are junk they're junk of corns
it's going to true but it doesn't mean
it didn't make sense with the way we
were deploying money in
2021 and I think in SASS and B2B we're
going to have several years of Whiplash
from this we're it's still going to be
confusing where the the bar is related
one and I do want to save time for
questions this one's going to be like
slightly critical only a little bit but
not literally critical
but a lot of the advice that you give
that other folks give to some extent
that I give it is based on all I'm
working at a lot of hits it and I I
maybe it's not maybe I said critical I
shocked you a little bit too much but
you have had a bit of hits and even some
of the stuff you did that was less
successful was still Venture back to
high growth right you still worked at a
lot of companies That Grew 5x in one
year and you know at least had 20 or 30
or 40 50 million to work with and so I
think it seemed like in 2021 that advice
worked for everybody I think today it
works
for you right so what have you learned
what works less well from the classic
playbook in 2024 that maybe we should
walk back a little bit or
modify couple things come to mind one
one is uh There is almost just
definitionally less money to spins today
you said and then the second thing is
even if you have the money there is so
much focus on efficiency metrics in
addition to the growth that didn't
necessarily exist in 2021 so even if you
have the money you might not be
encouraged to spend it as quickly as you
once were and I would say what I've
seen certainly in 2021 and maybe 2022 is
that the money was uh a net negative and
what the money LED go to market
organizations to do um was twofold and
I'll maybe take it like a marketing and
a sales angle I think on the marketing
side when there was so much money and
the environment that you described which
was almost like encouragement to spend
the money to funnel growth people I
think you described it as got lazy and I
think Wood's default to Let's increase
our paid online ad spend and just turn
that dial up and we spend more money and
equivalence to that traditional
marketing channels let's go spend this
much money at the booth at the
sponsorship we don't have time to like
really make sure that we not it out of
the park at this event but we want a
presence there so let's spend a few
hundred grand on the booth and that that
of course is like a bad decision but the
real negative and why I think it's a net
negative is because it prevented people
from really being creative I think it it
it was too easy to spend money and check
the box that you were doing your job and
it prevented people from doing really
creative campaigns that I think have the
outsized returns compared to the
traditional marketing channels that you
can almost do in your sleep on the sales
side the equivalent of that is uh people
hired way too much uh and I I've talked
about this and so uh if you've heard
this exact saying before I'll just
reinforce it um more salespeople does
not equal more sales and so in 2021 2022
and we've seen this manifest through
through layoffs over the last 18 months
people just they it's the marketing
equivalent we need more salespeople
because we need to grow faster so let's
hire more salespeople and they were
often times doing so in decreasing
spending environments companies weren't
buying as often so conversion rates were
going down companies weren't interested
in buying as often so demand was going
down and so more salespeople are being
deployed into a a diminishing demand gen
environment and that's the exact
opposite thing that you should do and so
I I think this doesn't exactly answer
the question but maybe it gets us to how
I would approach it into today's
environment and I think it's actually
not that different whether you have uh a
lot of venture cash or not there's some
differences but I do think that we need
to go back to an environment where
startups are hard people need to be
really Scrappy and it probably makes
sense to do the things like like online
paid advertising but do them in a way
where you are differentiated and you're
coming up with really creative ideas and
you hold people accountable in the sales
organization to numbers that make sense
for the business and you don't scale
either of those channels or people until
you you are happy with the efficiency of
those people and processes but let's
let's just push on it for a minute but
this headcount thing it's confusing
let's imagine you're doing pretty well
let's imagine you're going from 10 to 20
this year is the goal okay and you've
got a decent chance of at least going 10
to 18 and an outside chance of beating
20 don't you have to at least double
your sales head count I I don't think it
is a uh one-size fits-all answer I think
and so because of that I'm trying to
think of a a a way to articulate
something that is is valuable without
like the Nuance of a very specific
company let's imagine I went from three
to 10 last year pretty good right so I
added seven in bookings I probably
needed seven reps to do to add seven
right even if I'm efficient I probably
needed
seven yes okay so I think I've come up
with something that might be actually
helpful so when you whether it's 10 to
10 to 20 or two to five regardless of
the sort of scale of your business if
you are growing something or some things
are working and what what I see people
often times doing when things are
working is trying find other things to
work and um it like shifts Focus away
from the things that are actually
working um and the right thing to do is
like double triple quadruple down on the
things that are actually working for the
business um and then with the headcount
uh uh specific example the thing that I
would just make sure of if the
constraint to growing faster is that you
do not have enough salespeople to to
work the demand that exists for your
business then you should absolutely hire
more salespeople I think if you are
scaling really efficiently and quickly
and you have sales reps that are well
fed but not at the point of
breaking I I I I I actually don't know
that I would have more salespeople stay
hungry yes make more money and and look
you can even you can even present it to
the sales team you can say something
like we've got a couple options we can
continue hiring more salespeople and
keep your quota the same that it is we
can increase your quota a little bit and
not hire anybody but we think you'll
blow it out in that example and make
more money and by just thought exercises
like that can be valuable all right
question then and then a followup and
the question so 2020 into
2022 I think what you're saying is we
hired a lot of people well ahead of
being clear we needed that many sales
folks we didn't know that we had the
engine to feed him and it didn't matter
because we had so much Capital we hired
so many sales marketing other resources
ahead of actually having the demand to
feed them we made decisions based on a
spreadsheet we had a historical data on
rep Effectiveness in 2020 and 2021 and
finance plugged the number going from 10
reps to 14 reps into the spreadsheet and
the spreadsheet said this was what was
going to happen when we go from 10 to 14
reps I see and it actually went it not
only didn't go to 14 it regressed from
the productivity of 10 down to five or
six both because of the macro
environment and also the the Dynamics of
spreading the limited demand that we did
have to newer less successful reps now
we're laying off a bunch of people on
the team and okay so followup for folks
for Founders
here we were trained a certain way in
2020 2122 right we were we learned
that's a lot of years it wasn't three
months it was a long time when you go to
hire a head of sales or head of demand
Jer head of marketing and they need five
or 10 people to get going because that's
how they were
trained and they say they don't but they
do how do we handle this situation in
2024 because we don't have budget for
them to hire 10 AES and a whole SDR team
and a whole Ops Team or five people on
the marketing team on day one but it's
hard to get people to see that do we
give up on those people do we give them
a shot is is it a whole in my term is it
a whole Lost Generation of folks it's a
smart question and I'll give my best
answer and then I'm actually curious
from your seat as a CEO at Echo sign
what you would have done because they'll
probably play into each other a little
bit I remember I don't know which saster
annual it was but it was a saster annual
where Parker and I were on stage first
one 2015 okay we were at zenefits and we
were crushing it and we had a team of 20
s strr something like that which good
siiz SDR team but not massive and I
would I said something and I was wrong I
said at this point we have this machine
in place where we plug an SDR into the
system and we know the productivity that
we're going to get out of this that SDR
and it's effectively like sales math
from there how many sdrs do we need to
uh fill the the calendars of AES and
then we can hire that AE number as well
and maybe there's slight diminishing
returns as the team gets long that was
wrong so hope
I'm not giving incorrect advice as we
sit here today what comes to mind is
beaters especially leaders that are less
experienced I was a firsttime VP of
sales in 2015 at zenitz and I was biased
to hiring and building a team and
probably less focused on the analytical
like Revenue operations side of things
at the time and so the thing that comes
to mind and this is why I'm curious for
your answer for people that are in the
founder seat today um I I do think that
it is your responsibility to uh make the
ultimate decision around this um and of
course like explain why and then clearly
Define um what needs to happen and I'll
give one more tactical example I I do
tend to talk a lot but uh well I'll give
one more tactical example of what I
would do here I would give specific
outcome
that need to happen in order to continue
scaling the team and then when those
outcomes are achieved you you you get
the headcount that you're requesting
maybe I won't give the illustration
because the the outcome is basically
what I just described yeah no it's a
good one I I'll just add one and then
please come come forward with some
questions I've decided I feel like the
world is I have written about this a
little bit more on Linkin on SRA I feel
like the world is just in flux now we
haven't figured out what we're all going
to be like after 20 21 22 23 the
distributed Workforce has radically
changed what people do I did a survey on
LinkedIn a couple months ago and I asked
like over 2,000 sales professionals the
majority said they're working more than
one job the majority it wasn't possible
in 2019 because it was like work to do
two jobs at your Cube or your desk you
could do it but Sam or parker might see
you like you might get in trouble the
majority of folks are working multiple
jobs at the same time and so that Genie
isn't going to go into the the bottle
right and people like that and so that
sounds like a tangent but this is what
I've learned for
recruiting the first Executives today
the VP sales vpa marketing even vpa CS
vpa
product they got to carry a bag today
for real they got to they got to and it
doesn't it's if they don't they never
will they'll never they'll they we
change too much they need it too much of
a team they'll never learn the product
and and I would say whether even it's
for our little team or portfolio
companies I would say 80% of candidates
say they'll do that but by the end they
quit the interview process at the very
end they're like are you sure you really
will go visit customers you really will
sell yourself you really will no you're
right
Jason I don't want to do that I just
want to manage people everyone wants to
manage people and I want to be a leader
I want to work on process but the
company's a two- millionaire I'm good at
process and too many Founders and and
we're also good at talking about process
in 2024 we've watched Sam's talk so any
that's my only cheat code today is you
got to find the quirky people that want
to roll up their sleeves and carry a bag
in sales marketing custo that will visit
a customer that will do this uh I know
it's sad I feel like 80% of folks may
not be willing to do it anymore and I
don't judge them we've all changed we're
this is probably most of the people here
couldn't even live in Miami before 2020
but we got to change with how the games
changed right and um it's just
a lot of people don't want to carry a
bag and it's tough it's tough in sales
right uh it all resonates I think um I I
I agree in 90% of cases for startups
that's a smart thing to do and at a
minimum whether or not they actually
have a quota as a leader at a minimum
they are doing the the same activities
as the sales rep as they on board they
are closing deals they are visiting
customers and doing the sort of like
Scrappy activities all right we can take
a few questions question with Sam you
mentioned earlier give the sales team a
choice between bringing on more reps and
increasing everyone's targets or and I'm
keeping the same head count but having a
slight increase in the targets question
then is how do you do the fire one feed
one if you're not increasing head count
how do you keep them hungry I think one
thing comes to mind uh it's just like an
overarching theme and then I'll answer
the question directly around how do you
keep people motivated um on the
overarching
theme like a a different way of
approaching what I just described and
maybe there's this maybe there's this
like thought exercise that is if we kept
the same team and kept them motivated
would we close more Revenue than if we
continue building the team because the
environment right now is the team is
hitting quota but the team isn't I'm
looking at calendars they they aren't
working 50 hours a week they're working
closer to 25 or 30
and so there is additional capacity on
the existing team now like the economics
make sense the efficiency numbers are
there and so I think whether or not you
present the team with the question is an
interesting thought um you may or may
not decide to do that but I think the
way that I would approach the the
decision um that may be a mandate versus
a question to the team is what do we
believe will generate the most revenue
for the business do we believe keeping
the existing team keeping them motivated
increasing their quotas keeping the
efficiency metrics where they are is
that going to generate more Revenue as
we look out through the remainder of
2024 or do we believe it's it's a bit
subjective but do we believe that
bringing in new sales people even though
our sales people aren't at like full
capacity from a an hour standpoint what
is this sort like what's my intuition on
this which one is going to land us more
Revenue in 2024 you may or may not
decide to ask the team that could be a
collaborative decision and then the
thing that comes to mind on keeping
people motivated I think my experience
here has
been there there's this like virtuous uh
cycle that if you can put in place is
like magic and I don't know exactly
where it starts but because it's a bit
of a flywheel but you you you create an
environment where there is enough demand
to feed the sales team and what that
means is the team is Right sized
and from there you have sales reps that
are hitting quota and making money two
sides of the same coin these sales reps
that are hitting quota and making money
they are motivated because they are
hitting quota and making money and what
they then are motivated to do is
generate more demand you create an
environment where and Jason and I have
talked a little bit about this but you
create an environment where you
encourage hustling you encourage reps to
Source their their own deals and if they
want to be at the top of the leaderboard
they need to do that and so then again
virtu cycle that leads to more demand
more demand leads to people making a lot
of money making a lot of money leads to
people being motivated being motivated
hustling generating more demand and I
think doing everything that you can to
put that virtuous cycle in place and to
your point one way of doing it is you
will find out pretty quickly the people
that are jumping on that flywheel and
you'll find out the people who uh aren't
and you should replace them hi what
about moving towards um product let
growth and how do you
balance your team while you're moving to
product let gross I will answer a a a
variant of what you're asking based on
the conversation we had I think and I
teased this with Adam earlier in a
conversation I think folk folks that
have been doing this a long time me Sam
Adam have been doing some type of self-
serve freem long tale since the
beginning we're passionate about it
somehow this got corrupted the last four
or five years as a way to do it all in
the cheap I can't tell you how many
startups I've met with gross lows at 10
million 14 million 20 million and they
come to the board and we've got the
answer we figured it out Sam product Le
growth product L growth we've read about
it we've heard about it we can do
everything with two reps and uh a free
trial button our product doesn't
actually work as a free trial but one of
our engineers said he would work on it
this
weekend but all problems are solved
because we've sales team can't close
anything okay it sounds silly but I
can't tell you how many conversations
I've observed with and and listen hail
marries are a terrible idea for startups
but they're even worse when they're not
grounded in reality and the idea that
you can take a sales Le motion
especially that has stalled and that
product lead solves your problems if
your sales Le motion slows down
I will tell you the simple answer and
and this is so important you have fallen
out of product Market fit you have it
happens all the time and what happened
and I'll tell you one of the things I
got wrong Sam talked about Capa too much
capacity planning in the early days I
didn't think this uh vitamin versus
painkiller I didn't think it was true
okay because every app I grew up with in
my generation once it hit a certain
level of scale it just kept going all of
our generation us box Bill all of them
they just once they there was some we
grew up with that never hit Escape filos
but once they did they all became I
don't know what's the good one vitamin
or a painkiller the painkiller is a good
one you want to be the pain killer and I
remember what box was like when it
launched it was a vitamin but it became
a pain it's a b had a billionaire Rue
they all became but it turned out it's
not completely true and and Adam just
said he could probably cut 50 100 sass
saps at Vimeo he doesn't think it would
make a difference to the co and I bet a
lot of folks think those are mission
critical apps on the other side right so
my rambly point is if your growth is
declined you're one of those bubble apps
that Vimeo doesn't need change it get
your team together and say Frack we're
not as important as we thought we were
we're just not that important we're not
M we're not we're more than a nice to
have because there's too many nice to
haves but we're not this business will
die we're not an Erp we're not Mission
critical and and change it turn into and
if penetration testing isn't enough I'm
not saying it isn't do more like turn it
into a turn our apps into Mission
critical however it is because we don't
need any more apps we don't need one
more app we can run payroll and we can
use we can run our video and we can do
like the world will not end if we don't
buy your app and that's my kick in the
ass annoying thing and I'll shut up is
see if you really have product market
and if you really love plg add add it
because you love you want to do the long
tail but don't look for a hell Mary
there is no Hail Mary there right I'll
say one more thing and then we can Gove
on another question not only is it this
this I throw my head in my hands at the
board meeting kind of thing is the magic
solution here's the other thing that I
think Adam May nod his head if you don't
architect around this in the beginning
it's almost impossible to add it later
like the the the a sales Le an
Enterprise motion has many benefits over
a lowend March the nrr is higher that
you don't but the thing is you can skip
a lot of steps you can do manual
onboarding you can do manual
configuration you can hire consultants
and services and deployment plg the
product has to be so much better better
it has to work in one it has to be
magical and I I don't think Salesforce
itself is that magical it's done pretty
good it's at three billion it's it
Salesforce every couple years comes out
with a plg product that the low-end S 11
times in our history Adam and I there's
a new self- served version of Salesforce
that I don't think it's ever been more
than half a percent of Revenue because
it's not their DNA right and so just if
you're going to do it early and and do
it at a profound passion because it's
impossible to bolt on later it's
impossible to bolt on yeah literally but
I can't we could go through all the
public companies and think who's bolted
on a magical cheap selfs sered Edition
that's been 20% of more Revenue it's
probably zero right so start now it's
not too late but yeah the big ones that
come to mind at lassan who who started
as product Le growth zapier same idea
powered at Rome really focused on on
product lead growth and I can't think of
one that is the inverse where they then
Incorporated Enterprise sales on top of
the product Leed motion that built the
foundation for what the business and
reached some certain scale hey question
for both of you so when you're training
sdrs would you recommend them to follow
more of a bottom up approach or a top
down approach and what factors would you
base that
on when you say bottomup approach do you
mean reaching out to the decision maker
or reaching out to uh a user of the
product what do you mean by Bottoms Up
or top exactly like whether you're
reaching out to a C- level employee or
bottom line employee I I think initially
you follow your intuition around who the
sort of decision maker buyer um highest
likelihood to convert a deal within a
business is I'll give a tactical example
and then I'll um describe what happens
over time as the business matures when
we started at brex we were a financial
tool for smaller companies we would go
after Founders because they didn't have
Finance people just yet and for more
mid-market companies we could be
purchased by folks in finance or
accounting and we generally started with
the higher level of title I I think the
qualification was you you actually can't
schedule a demo with anybody less than
director and generally speaking we
prefer like a CFO over a VP of Finance
over a Director of Finance now that that
Cal may change if the Director of
Finance is the actual buyer of your
product and then the other thing that we
would do is we would go after people in
accounting we would go after controllers
Chief accounting officers these
different personas and when a a 100
person start up there might be pin
people that we could schedule a meeting
with so early you cast a wide net I
think you go after the person that
you're inition is who you have the
highest likelihood of closing a deal
with and then over time you start to get
a lot of data and you track conversion
rates by Persona and that then leads you
to the sort of strategy of who are we
initially targeting and prioritizing now
it doesn't mean that at that 100 person
company you only go after the one person
that has the highest likelihood of
converting it just means you really
start there as you start to have that
feedback loop from historical data one
thing I'll add that I took me a while to
realize is I think that's a great story
is not listen any SDR two months out of
college can send a Cadence right on
their owner with an AI tool now but not
that many have the
maturity to really reach out to power to
really know Mona's nodding with me
because she can do it to know how to
Target a CEO and actually say what M
like cosos don't have the time but uh
cosos read like every
email every email and it's just they
don't Howard's nody in his head even
when he was running y 22 quarters as a
public he didn't respond to any of them
and if the email was great if it was
like if it was going to solve one of
Howard's top four problems at quarter he
would actually respond personally to the
email tops sound Bottoms Up what I have
learned is a lot of folks in sales are
intimidated to properly go to the top
they don't have the life experience they
haven't they don't know what it's like
and they're like those letters are
really scary and I I think all of s is a
scary myself I think it's hard to but if
you have that gem on your team lean into
it because I think Sam's example is the
right way to do it but you people have
personalities and if you have a gem on
your team that is comfortable reaching
out to the top of the orc chart and can
write the right email and Sol do the
research for half an hour and actually
figure out how brex will truly solve
their problem not send the same email or
the generic brex versus ramp thing that
they don't even want to hear I don't
care about brex or ramp I want I have a
problem at my company and if brex is the
only vendor that solves it I will buy it
today that's the email the co wants not
the the how we're three cents cheaper a
rambl answer if you have that gem on
your team promote them and lean into it
because uh people will default to
selling low they're intimidated to sell
high right it it's a smart answer I
think um the question around the who to
reach out to is important I think what
Jason you're saying which I'll
reinforced and then maybe tie back to a
topic that we were touching on earlier
that the how is harder and we we we got
in this environment where the the
default is an SDR just the universe with
the same email sequence and that that is
reaching diminishing returns and
probably has been for many years and so
then I think more attention on the how
and going back to this idea of being
creative and not going through the
motions is
smart yeah the other thing I I hope
there's something I hope that I don't
think it's going to be true but I hope
it's true I hope in three to four years
with AI and efficiency in the changes
the world that there is a whole Legion
of seasoned sdrs that are paid for
performance that make more money that
are not constantly churning out 6 months
out of school I know that Ashley's great
at that you guys did what Sam did one
with Ashley who worked with him in his
head of outbound ripling and she I think
she hires two or three hundred people a
year right yeah she has an engine she's
an most of us cannot keep up with that
for a million reasons I would love to
have forever if you could have four to
five sdrs on your team that's this rare
bird that will stay a decade that will
get better and better selling to your
stakeholder that will know them and they
are reliably making good sixf figure
income and they want to stay in their
box it's like a lot of the best AES
don't want to be VPS of sales like don't
let your best AE of VP of sales and fail
if you can help it right and if you can
find it's hard but if you can find a
longer path for these gems I think it's
I'm hoping it's part of the future
because I don't know that this bottom
will last
forever question about the hiring hiring
s reps is is really hard how do you know
after 30 to 60 days that it's not going
to work and you should
I I think Jason has probably lots of
content around this that's coming to
mind one interesting way of thinking so
there's subjective and there's objective
maybe the the way that I would
categorize it there's also things like
the cycle times that you have of your
product and so if you have a six-month
long sales cycle it's going to be hard
from a purely Revenue standpoint to
determine whether or not uh sales rep is
successful I think what you want to have
is clear expect
around what's expected in the first 30
and 60 days that are as objective as
possible in it's binary are we meeting
these expectations or or are we not and
then there is the subjective lens that
is something like what does your gut say
and I think certainly by 60 days if your
gut is telling you that this isn't
really working out the likelihood that
that changes is pretty low and given the
pace that startups move
uh you might be better off moving on
yeah maybe let me just add one two
thoughts one is if you're in founder Le
sales 60 days is a long time you'll know
if it's in founder Le sales you'll know
in 14 days in founder lead sales
unfortunately you could you can't hire
the diverse type of rep that a great C
or VPS sales can hire they have to be
narrow they have to be people that work
on your wavelength that talk the way you
talk that can do no look passes that you
can send one slack not a 100 a day not
being LED with the dumbest questions on
slack you have to have this very narrow
box and you'll know in two weeks okay
when you hire ahe of sales if she or he
is good let them expand the Box let them
hire people that you wouldn't hire or go
longer or if Sam says you know what
Jason hasn't closed anything in six days
I know usually it's terrible but I know
Jason we're going to give him another
pass just def defer once you hire that
person right but let me add one Nuance
this is something I've been doing for
years with VPS and now I think in 2024
we should do with ic's individual
contributors give them an offer letter
that is
signed and then give him two weeks to
back
out take the pressure off recruiting
here's your offer letter here's your
comp and then say to Jason or Sam or
Emilia look the last thing we want is
you to fail here in 30 days you're an i
you could not have done enough diligence
I know my company you know your company
there's no way this rep that went
through four interviews over zoom and
met for someone for coffee they have no
idea how these companies how brex or
Vimeo or Rome Works they don't know and
it's on you and give them two weeks to
join more team calls to join meetings to
listen to a 50 gongs do every and give
them a chance to make sure they believe
after two weeks find some way where they
have their job and they can say to you
in two weeks it's not for me find
something I've done this with VPS for
years because there's nothing worse than
IR a VP and it not working out in 90
days right but in a startup it's true of
an i everyone's important today you
don't want to the last thing I'll say
and Sam you could add to it there's for
years there's been this meme in sales
you should fire your reps you don't want
to fire anybody today the cost is so
high it's so many lost leads it's so
many lost Cycles so you don't you really
want to I think as Founders and as
Leaders we need to go the extra yard for
as long as possible to have high
conviction they will work not not maybe
we should go further because the cost of
them turning out it's so it's just
destroys organizations right so I try to
give somehow this moment after the offer
sign to de-stress it you don't have to
sell me anymore you got the job Sam you
take two weeks to decide is it for you
some version of that I think we should
do more of Jason's answer was smarter
and more tactical than mine so I I'll
try and be more specific and like
actually what I would do which may be
different from the way that others
approach it uh we measure success based
off of largely three criteria the first
is performance performance is objective
uh over time it's how much revenue is
the rep generating during the ramping
period there are other objective metrics
that are performance related can be
pipeline can be activity based uh but
actual outputs and then the other two
things that we look to measure success
are subjective and they are effort an
attitude and when there is somebody that
is not meeting the performance
measurements uh we then look at effort
and attitude and if you have somebody
who um is poor on either uh if they
aren't working that hard and they're not
meeting the minimum of expectations it's
either a z to Jason's point if it's
founder Le sales if it's your first AE I
don't think you even have the
conversation I I think you just move on
I think at a at a more mature business
it might be a one-time conversation it's
not only are you not hitting quota but
you're working what appears to be like
14 hours a week this is a full-time job
there are expectations especially when
you're underperforming and the attitude
very different but same idea where man
negative attitudes and this is likely
true in in any department but it's
certainly true within a sales
organization a a negative attitude just
spreads like cancer where if you're
complaining about the leads you're
complaining about the product or you're
complaining about the manager it just it
goes to the other reps and the person is
actually adding negative value to the
company um we would be better off if
they weren't here uh and so maybe that
is helpful from like a a ly to view the
subjectivity from around effort and
attitude yeah the thing is and let's
take two more questions I'll just say
this is my I'm embarrassed to say I had
this Epiphany a couple months ago and
wrote it I should have had it 10 years
ago but um
this is why I don't like some of this
sales fire stuff even though it's true
it's always your fault when someone
doesn't work out maybe you've known that
because you've hired more people it took
me a while to be frustrated at people
that quit to be frustrated with people
that I know could do a better job they
could do it took me a while to not feel
let down by some people as a Founder as
Founders we get really we take it very
personally when folks don't give a not
normal people but when we really believe
in them and we know they're good like it
hurts right and I I didn't get bitter
but I would say I was was at the edge of
holding grudges for many years and I was
wrong it's you didn't do the work you
didn't figure out if they were the right
fit they never know you can never know
enough about a company before you join
it's impossible and it's just take it on
yourself to help them learn more about
the opportunity right I think it is
possible in the old days back when we
worked together in sales there was a we
had a actually had a model I don't know
certainly Bren and I talked about of
having a no voluntary attrition sales
model a lot of folks did it it caded
away it's not a bad model for 2024 to
have no voluntary attrition to aim for
it right that no good people would would
would leave but you got to go further in
recruiting it's always your fault it's
never their fault the rep that didn't
sell anything you will be shocked are at
at how maybe you have different stories
you'll be shocked at how many reps that
are poor performing in one environment
can actually succeed in another right
that's the aha moment someone could come
into brecks and I don't know how to
talk to finance people and they go
somewhere that's seemingly simple they
go to naon it seems simpler but travel
and all of a sudden they're grade I
can't tell the
difference uh that's right and I think
maybe a continuation is something like
when the or seemingly inevitable happens
where a hire doesn't work out and you
blame yourself make sure that manifests
in the way that you uh part ways with
them um I I think uh and this is this
goes both ways I think you know when you
terminate an employee I I think you want
to do in a way that when they reflect on
their time at the business and when they
reflect on maybe you as a manager or you
as a person that you you leave on as as
positive a note as possible and I think
the inverse is true as an employee when
you're exiting in a company and Jason
does a lot of posts about this just go
out maintaining his relationships as
closely as you possibly can but slightly
off topic but I got one all right last
question hey this is greed thank you in
the interest of efficiency and just
economic efficiency what do you guys
think about fractional
across fractional CMOS fractional
BPS I know J Jason actually mentioned
that Jason's a big fan the poll you
mentioned every rep or every go-to
Market member is going to have multiple
jobs you I noticed had a Consulting gig
for little while of your own business
curious your experiences there what do
you think about it good bad ugly great
Etc I want to hear Sam's Point I do
think there's a lot of nuance between
moments when Consultants can help you
that are Hands-On versus oil salesman
that want to be a fractional CMO at 50
companies but only want to
do strategy but but go what do you think
Sam maybe you found some good does it
work for you I just worry that startups
get too much snake oil salesman like I
need a CMO I need to do marketing but I
can't afford it Loretta will help me but
she only has time for strategy she'll
set up the the ideas and there's no one
to implement or do the work yeah just
throw it out real quick also if they're
going to do the execution as well and
I've never met that person but I I could
see how it might work Jason curious your
thoughts on this I think that there are
it's not one size fits all and I think
that there are situations where um a
business is at a point in time where
there might be some leadership Gap that
exists and somebody like Jason is an
investor and there's an existing team
and there there like team needs a little
bit of support and Jason had this
incredible VP of sales at echosign named
Brendan and Brendan went on to lead talk
desk which is I think A1 billion doll
company and this sort of in network
trusted advisor in person can come in
and add some specific value that makes
sense point in time I can see scenarios
like that where it makes sense but I
would I would just be I I'd be really
positive about the person
that you are working with and that's
maybe the example that comes to mind is
a a very like Jason's a trusted investor
within his portfolio companies Brendan
is a trusted consultant part-time sales
leader that uh I think helps a lot of
Jason's portfolio companies maybe the
last thing I'll add it's not listen I do
think you helped at flexport when they
went through some times that was high
value it exists getting the best people
to help at inflection points can
help doing it to save money doesn't work
not only because it doesn't save money
but you got to really learn the
secretive math you're like I can't
afford a head of marketing I can't
afford a head of sales you can a great
head of sales that will actually carry a
bag a great head of marketers that's
actually willing to a campaign
themselves or to put together an event
themselves the great ones are always a
creative this is like a recurrent SAS
post for 12 years a great head of sales
will come in and take your 50 leads and
turn them into more Revenue than without
them they'll turn into 200k more of
Revenue or 400k or whatever their OT is
a great marketer will get you more leads
and so the idea that I can't afford
ahead of sales marketing but the
fractional one is going to save me money
no it's always more expensive it's
always more expensive to give someone 50
Grand and get nothing than to pay
someone 200 Grand and get 400 Grand of
Revenue and you just got to live that
and you just have to meet someone great
and the final point I guess I'll say on
it is
this is like a transformational thing I
literally was talking with the co that
last week at struggling at 20 million
growth had slowed and what the main
reason growth had slowed is the category
had changed and they'd fallen out of
product Market fit going to our
conversation and I said listen I've been
watching your company since
2018 and it just seems like everyone's
moving faster than you it's the same
prodct I don't mean to be a jerk because
I don't use all of it but where's the
mobile app it's been like it's time to
get the mobile app since 2018 and I'm
like what you need is an incredible CTO
that just iterates at this rate and I
said have you ever worked with someone
like this it's honest I've never worked
with someone like that so you got to
meet the S blonds or whomever try to
meet three there's only so many in Miami
try to meet four or five Sams the best
you can and then you have a bar and
they'll always be a creative it's the
ones below that suck up all your money
and it's gone so any know Sam's
insight's more than mine but Sam at
flexport high value ad other stories but
can't afford it it's it's all your money
is going to just going to flush the
money down the drain right that sounds
right you don't do it for cost savings
it might be that you have the
opportunity to work with somebody that
you consider really exceptional and then
you take advantage of that opportunity
as something that is like supplemental
to running the business maybe is the
qualification right Sam thanks for
coming back Adam thanks for joining us
this was great thank you everybody thank
you